{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b WMS Pro Invoicing SOP (Current System)\b0\line
Version Date: 19 Mar 2026\line
\line
\b 1. Purpose\b0\line
This SOP defines how invoicing works in current WMS Pro and how teams should run daily billing, exception handling, invoice finalization, payment posting, and month-end closure.\line
\line
\b 2. Scope\b0\line
Applies to Billing Ops, Finance, and Review/Approver roles for all active clients and warehouses in a tenant company.\line
\line
\b 3. Core System Flow (As Implemented)\b0\line
1. Operational events create billing transactions:\line
   - GRN Confirm -> INBOUND_HANDLING staged\line
   - DO Dispatch -> OUTBOUND_HANDLING staged\line
   - VAS Complete -> VAS staged\line
   - Storage Snapshot Job -> STORAGE staged\line
2. Rating engine resolves charge using active rate master/details by client, date, charge type, item.\line
3. If resolved, transaction status = UNBILLED. If not resolved, status = UNRATED.\line
4. Draft invoice generation picks UNBILLED transactions by client and period and creates invoice header/lines/tax lines.\line
5. Linked transactions are marked BILLED with invoice_id.\line
6. Invoice finalize allowed only from DRAFT and compliance guard blocks invalid zero-taxable operational invoices.\line
7. Payments update paid amount, balance, and status (PAID/PENDING/OVERDUE).\line
\line
\b 4. Role-Wise Responsibilities\b0\line
\b 4.1 Billing Ops\b0\line
- Run billing preview and review warnings.\line
- Process Unbilled Activities and Unrated Queue.\line
- Raise/fix rate-card mapping gaps with Finance.\line
- Reprocess valid unrated transactions after master-data fix.\line
- Prepare draft invoices for Finance validation.\line
\line
\b 4.2 Finance\b0\line
- Validate draft invoice values, tax split, and customer terms.\line
- Finalize compliant draft invoices.\line
- Record payments and monitor balances/overdues.\line
- Approve Ignore-with-Reason actions for exceptions.\line
\line
\b 4.3 Finance Review/Approver\b0\line
- Review escalated exceptions (high impact/contract ambiguity).\line
- Approve or reject remediation notes with audit comments.\line
\line
\b 5. Daily Billing Run SOP\b0\line
\b Step 1: Set Billing Scope\b0\line
- Open Finance > Billing.\line
- Set Date From/Date To, Client filter, Warehouse filter.\line
- Click Apply.\line
\line
\b Step 2: Check Unrated Queue First\b0\line
- Open Unrated Queue tab.\line
- For each row, determine reason (missing active rate, missing contract, tax issue, etc.).\line
- Fix rate card/config/source data as required.\line
- Use Reprocess once fixed.\line
- Use Void only for true invalid/duplicate business events.\line
\line
\b Step 3: Review Exceptions\b0\line
- Open Exceptions tab.\line
- Prioritize HIGH severity first.\line
- For each exception, action only with mandatory:\line
  - Root Cause\line
  - Resolution Note\line
- Action options:\line
  - Resolve (issue corrected and verified)\line
  - Ignore with Reason (approved business exception)\line
  - Send to Finance Review (needs approval)\line
\line
\b Step 4: Validate Unbilled Activities\b0\line
- Confirm expected charge type, qty, event date, and amount.\line
- Ensure no blocked exceptions remain for the run scope.\line
\line
\b Step 5: Generate Invoice Drafts\b0\line
- Run draft generation for selected period (or cycle run if configured).\line
- Verify generated count vs expected billable clients.\line
\line
\b 6. Invoice Validation and Finalization SOP\b0\line
\b Step 1: Draft Validation\b0\line
- Check invoice lines, taxable amount, and GST components.\line
- Verify due date and billing cycle profile.\line
\line
\b Step 2: Compliance Check\b0\line
- Ensure invoice has non-zero taxable amount when operational activity exists.\line
- If blocked, fix rates/master data and regenerate draft.\line
\line
\b Step 3: Finalize Invoice\b0\line
- Finalize only DRAFT invoices.\line
- Resulting status becomes FINALIZED / OVERDUE / PAID based on balance and due date logic.\line
\line
\b 7. Payment Posting SOP\b0\line
1. Open invoice payments.\line
2. Enter payment date, amount, mode, reference, notes.\line
3. Validate: payment must not exceed outstanding balance.\line
4. Save payment; system updates paid amount, balance, and status.\line
5. Verify ledger sync completed.\line
\line
\b 8. Exception Playbook (Operational)\b0\line
\b 8.1 Missing Active Rate (HIGH)\b0\line
- Validate client, event date, charge type, item mapping, effective dates, active flag.\line
- Create/fix rate detail, then reprocess transaction.\line
\line
\b 8.2 Zero-Value Derived Line (MEDIUM)\b0\line
- Check quantity/UOM, unit_rate, min_charge, free_qty, slab config.\line
- If contractual zero is valid, Ignore with approval note. Else fix and reprocess.\line
\line
\b 8.3 Invalid Tax Mapping (HIGH)\b0\line
- Validate GST rate/tax code and interstate vs intrastate determination.\line
- Correct mapping and regenerate/reprocess.\line
\line
\b 8.4 Duplicate Candidate (MEDIUM)\b0\line
- Keep one valid event, void duplicates with reason.\line
\line
\b 9. Month-End Closure Checklist\b0\line
1. Freeze operational posting window for closing period (as per policy).\line
2. Clear UNRATED queue or document approved carry-forward list.\line
3. Resolve/approve open HIGH exceptions.\line
4. Generate final draft batch for period.\line
5. Validate client totals and tax totals.\line
6. Finalize all approved invoices.\line
7. Export invoice register, aging, trial-balance summary.\line
8. Reconcile: invoice totals vs billing transactions vs ledger totals.\line
9. Publish closure sign-off (Billing Ops + Finance Approver).\line
\line
\b 10. Controls and Audit Requirements\b0\line
- No exception closure without root cause and resolution note.\line
- No direct void/unbill for billed transactions linked to invoice (use adjustment workflow).\line
- Use idempotency keys for critical generate/finalize/payment APIs in integrations.\line
- Keep all run keys and job run logs for traceability.\line
\line
\b 11. KPIs to Monitor Daily\b0\line
- UNRATED count\line
- Open exceptions count (especially HIGH)\line
- Draft generation success rate\line
- Overdue balance and collection efficiency\line
- Reprocess success rate\line
\line
\b 12. Escalation Matrix\b0\line
- Billing Ops: initial triage and remediation\line
- Finance: approval for ignore/review decisions\line
- System Admin/Product: recurring rule/config defects\line
\line
\b End of SOP\b0\line
}
